Caching Terraform providers (#3001)
gruntwork-io/terragrunt: docs/_docs/02_features/provider-cache.md

---
layout: collection-browser-doc
title: Provider Caching
category: features
categories_url: features
excerpt: Learn how to use terragrunt provider cache.
tags: ["cache", "provider"]
order: 280
nav_title: Documentation
nav_title_link: /docs/
---

## Provider Caching

Terragrunt has the ability to cache Terraform providers across all Terraform instances, ensuring that each provider is only ever downloaded and stored on disk exactly once.

#### Why caching is useful

Let's imagine that your project consists of 50 Terragrunt modules (terragrunt.hcl), each of them uses the same provider `aws`. Without caching, each of them will download the provider from the Internet and stored in its own `.terraform` directory. For clarity, the downloadable archive `terraform-provider-aws_5.36.0_darwin_arm64.zip` has a size of ~100MB, and when unzipped it takes up ~450MB of disk space. It’s easy to calculate that initializing such a project with 50 modules will cost you 5GB of traffic and 22.5GB of free space instead of 100MB and 450MB using the cache.

#### Why Terraform's built-in provider caching doesn't work

> Terraform has provider caching feature [Provider Plugin Cache](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#provider-plugin-cache), that does the job well until you run multiple Terraform processes simultaneously. Then the Terraform processes begin conflict by overwriting each other’s cache, which causes the error like `Error: Failed to install provider`. By default, to speed up processing, Terragrunt runs multiple Terraform modules simultaneously, which in turn prevents the use of [Provider Plugin Cache](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#provider-plugin-cache) to avoid conflicts or force Terragrunt to run Terraform modules sequentially by specifying the `--terragrunt-parallelism 1` flag, which significantly slows down the work.

Author: Thanks.

``` shell
terragrunt plan \
--terragrunt-provider-cache \
--terragrunt-provider-cache-dir /new/path/to/cache/dir
```

or the environment variable `TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE_DIR`:

``` shell
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE=1 \
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE_DIR=/new/path/to/cache/dir \
terragrunt plan
```

By default, Terragrunt only caches providers from the following registries: `registry.terraform.io`, `registry.opentofu.org`. You can override this list using the flag [`terragrunt-provider-cache-registry-names`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/cli-options/#terragrunt-provider-cache-registry-names):

``` shell
terragrunt apply \
--terragrunt-provider-cache \
--terragrunt-provider-cache-registry-names example1.com \
--terragrunt-provider-cache-registry-names example2.com
```

or the environment variable `TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE_REGISTRY_NAMES`:

``` shell
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE=1 \
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE_REGISTRY_NAMES=example1.com,example2.com \
terragrunt apply
```

> Since Terragrunt Cache is essentially a Private Registry server that accepts requests from Terraform, downloads and saves providers to the cache directory, there are a few more flags that are unlikely to be needed, but are useful to know about:

Reviewer: I'd move all these docs under a new "Configure the Terragrunt Cache Provider" sub-section (`###` heading) that goes _below_ the "How Terragrunt Provider Caching works" section, as until you read that, it's not clear why there's any server at all!

Author: I did as you said. Thank you.

* Server Port [`terragrunt-provider-cache-port`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/cli-options/#terragrunt-provider-cache-port), assigned automatically  every time you launch the Terragurnt.
* Server Token [`terragrunt-provider-cache-token`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/cli-options/#terragrunt-provider-cache-token), generated automatically every time you launch  the Terragurnt.

To enhance security, the cache server has authentication to prevent unauthorized connections from third-party applications. You can set your own token using any character set.

``` shell
terragrunt apply \
--terragrunt-provider-cache \
--terragrunt-provider-cache-host 192.168.0.100 \
--terragrunt-provider-cache-port 5758 \
--terragrunt-provider-cache-token my-secret
```
or using environment variables:

``` shell
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE=1 \
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE_HOST=192.168.0.100 \
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE_PORT=5758 \
TERRAGRUNT_PROVIDER_CACHE_TOKEN=my-secret \
terragrunt apply
```

### How Terragrunt Provider Caching works

> * Run Terragurn Provider Cache server on localhost.
> * Configure Terraform instances to use the cache server as a remote registry:
>   * Create local CLI config file `.terragrunt-cache/.terraformrc` that concatenates the user configuration from the Terraform [CLI config file](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file) with additional sections:
>      * [provider-installation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#provider-installation) forces Terraform to look for for the required providers in the cache directory and create symbolic links to them, if not found, then request them from the remote registry.
>      * [host](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/28309) forces Terraform to [forward](#How forwarding Terraform requests through the cache server works) all provider requests through the cache server.
>   * Set environment variables:
>      * [TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_MAY_BREAK_DEPENDENCY_LOCK_FILE](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#allowing-the-provider-plugin-cache-to-break-the-dependency-lock-file) allows to generate `.terraform.lock.hcl` files based only on provider hashes from the cache directory.
>      * [TF_CLI_CONFIG_FILE](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/environment-variables#tf_plugin_cache_dir) sets to use just created local CLI config `.terragrunt-cache/.terraformrc`
>      * [TF_TOKEN_*](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#environment-variable-credentials) sets per-remote-registry tokens for authentication to cache server.
> * Call `terraform providers lock -platform=cache_provider`. When the cache server receives this request, it returns HTTP status _429 Locked_ and starts caching the provider (for any other requests, cache server acts as a proxy):
>   * Create the [lock file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_locking) to prevent multiple cache servers from overwriting the same provider cache.
>   * Download the provider from the remote registry, unpack and store into the cache directory or [create a symlink](#Why Cache Server creates symlinks to providers from the user plugins directory) if the required provider exists in the user plugins directory.
>   * Remove the [lock file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_locking).
> * Receive the response _429 Locked_ from the cache server, wait until all providers are cached.
> * If the [`terragrunt-provider-cache-complete-lock`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/cli-options/#terragrunt-provider-cache-complete-lock) flag is set, call `terraform providers lock` to generate a complete `.terraform.lock.hcl` file.
> * Run `terragrunt init`, which in turn finds providers in the cache directory and creates symlinks to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Start a server on localhost. This is the _Terragrunt Provider Cache server_.
* Configure Terraform instances to use the cache server as a remote registry:
  * Create local CLI config file `.terragrunt-cache/.terraformrc` that concatenates the user configuration from the Terraform [CLI config file](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file) with additional sections:
     * [provider-installation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#provider-installation) forces Terraform to look for for the required providers in the cache directory and create symbolic links to them, if not found, then request them from the remote registry.
     * [host](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/28309) forces Terraform to [forward](#how-forwarding-terraform-requests-through-the-cache-server-works) all provider requests through the cache server.
  * Set environment variables:
     * [TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_MAY_BREAK_DEPENDENCY_LOCK_FILE](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#allowing-the-provider-plugin-cache-to-break-the-dependency-lock-file) allows to generate `.terraform.lock.hcl` files based only on provider hashes from the cache directory.
     * [TF_CLI_CONFIG_FILE](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/environment-variables#tf_plugin_cache_dir) sets to use just created local CLI config `.terragrunt-cache/.terraformrc`
     * [TF_TOKEN_*](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#environment-variable-credentials) sets per-remote-registry tokens for authentication to cache server.
* Any time Terragrunt is going to run `init`:
    * Call `terraform providers lock -platform=cache_provider`. This gets Terraform to request all the providers it needs from the Terragrunt Provider Cache server. 
    * The Terragrunt Provider Cache server will download the provider from the remote registry, unpack and store it into the cache directory or [create a symlink](#Why Cache Server creates symlinks to providers from the user plugins directory) if the required provider exists in the user plugins directory. Note that the Terragrunt Provider Cache server will ensure that each unique provider is only ever downloaded and stored on disk once, handling concurrency (from multiple Terraform and Terragrunt instances) correctly. 
    * The Terragrunt Provider Cache server returns the HTTP status _429 Locked_ to Terraform. This is because we do _not_ want Terraform to actually download any providers as a result of calling `terraform providers lock` (as that command does _not_ use any caching); we only use that command to get the list of required providers.
    * At this point, all providers are downloaded and cached, so finally, we run `terragrunt init`, which will find all the providers it needs in the cache, and it'll create symlinks to them nearly instantly, with no additional downloading.
    * Note that if a Terraform module doesn't have a lock file, Terraform does _not_ use the cache, so it would end up downloading all the providers from scratch. To work around this, by default, we use the `plugin_cache_may_break_dependency_lock_file` feature, which, for modules without lock files, will allow Terraform to automatically generate a partial lock file if it finds the providers it needs in the cache, with no additional downloading. This ensures that no additional downloads are necessary, but at the cost of partial lock files. If you wish to disable this feature, set the [`terragrunt-provider-cache-complete-lock`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/cli-options/#terragrunt-provider-cache-complete-lock) flag, and for modules without a lock file, Terragrunt will call `terraform providers lock`, which will give you a complete lock file, at the cost of more downloading and bandwidth.
```

Author: Thanks.

     * [host](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/28309) forces Terraform to [forward](#how-forwarding-terraform-requests-through-the-cache-server-works) all provider requests through the Terragrunt Provider Cache server.
  * Set environment variables:
     * [TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_MAY_BREAK_DEPENDENCY_LOCK_FILE](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#allowing-the-provider-plugin-cache-to-break-the-dependency-lock-file) allows to generate `.terraform.lock.hcl` files based only on provider hashes from the cache directory.
     * [TF_CLI_CONFIG_FILE](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/environment-variables#tf_plugin_cache_dir) sets to use just created local CLI config `.terragrunt-cache/.terraformrc`
     * [TF_TOKEN_*](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#environment-variable-credentials) sets per-remote-registry tokens for authentication to Terragrunt Provider Cache server.
* Any time Terragrunt is going to run `init`:
    * Call `terraform providers lock -platform=cache_provider`. This gets Terraform to request all the providers it needs from the Terragrunt Provider Cache server.

>     * The Terragrunt Provider Cache server will download the provider from the remote registry, unpack and store it into the cache directory or [create a symlink](#Why Cache Server creates symlinks to providers from the user plugins directory) if the required provider exists in the user plugins directory. Note that the Terragrunt Provider Cache server will ensure that each unique provider is only ever downloaded and stored on disk once, handling concurrency (from multiple Terraform and Terragrunt instances) correctly.

Reviewer: Broken link:

```suggestion
    * The Terragrunt Provider Cache server will download the provider from the remote registry, unpack and store it into the cache directory or [create a symlink](#reusing-providers-from-the-user-plugins-directory) if the required provider exists in the user plugins directory. Note that the Terragrunt Provider Cache server will ensure that each unique provider is only ever downloaded and stored on disk once, handling concurrency (from multiple Terraform and Terragrunt instances) correctly.
```

Author: Thanks.

---
layout: collection-browser-doc
title: Provider Cache
category: features
categories_url: features
excerpt: Learn how to use provider cache with run-all commands.
tags: ["cache"]
order: 280
nav_title: Documentation
nav_title_link: /docs/
---

## Provider Cache

> Terraform has provider caching feature [Provider Plugin Cache](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#provider-plugin-cache), that does the job well until you run multiple Terraform processes simultaneously. Then the Terraform processes begin conflict by overwriting each other’s cache, which causes the error `Error: Failed to install provider`. By default, to speed up processing, Terragrunt with the [`run-all`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/cli-options/#run-all) command processes modules simultaneously, which in turn prevents the use of [Provider Plugin Cache](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/config-file#provider-plugin-cache) to avoid conflicts or force Terragrunt to process modules sequentially by specifying the `--terragrunt-parallelism 1` flag, which significantly slows down the work.

Author: Initially I did it only for `run-all` commands, but now it works for all commands.
